---
title: Swarm City
---

Swarm City is a decentralised ridesharing application.

Users requiring ridesharing services create requests for their service with a beginning, end and timeframe required. Drivers seeking customers can now query over that time and space range to determine the suitiability of the opportunity. On finding a desireable opportunity, the driver commits to provide the service to the user via the blockchain and the user is notified of this. The driver then signposts the user to an asymetrically encrypted feed of their location so the user can track their arrival. Once the driver has picked up the customer, the driver notifies the blockchain contract. On completion of the trip as both parties are satisfied they notify the blockchain and funds are transferred from the driver to the user straight away.

As usual, we assume all parties egalitarian and leave dispute resolution as an exercise for 'the blockchain'.

We also assume that our parties are happy to leak metadata about the intial link. This can be obfuscated using intial key exchanges negotiated via trojan chunks.

    <<<aside
    a nice scheme is to have both parties commit some small stake per transaction, if there is no dispute then the stake is simply refunded (minus small tx charge) however if there is a dispute a part of the stake is essentially used to fund the dispute resolution service. i.e. once the dispute is resolved one way or the other the funds are dispersed minus the dispute resolution fee. this disincentivises disputes in the first place. why can't everyone just get along?
    
    there is also an extra layer of larger stakes to participate in the system (to cover eg. vomiting in a cab while drunk). this could be seen as prefunding as reputation is increased the need for stake is reduced.
    
    alternatively reputation could be earned or transferred from something else. perhaps as passengers? or friends could recommend people and essentially cover their stake because they are known to be trustworthy. this actually sets up a secondary market of trust :)
        
    >>>

### Example

A driver searches for opportunities by simply querying the blockchain to find these opportunitites. In more complex versions of the software a user may be required to add some stake or otherwise prove reputation. However, in the case we will simply add our address to a list of requested rides. 

Let's quickly use Swarm.js to set up our driver profile so we can be recognised when we turn up.

To do this we'll make a Single Owner Chunk using the 'profile' topic under the 'swarmcity' salt. We will use the default which is 'most recent'.

```js
let salt = "swarmcity";
let swarmCityDriver = new Swarm(salt, {
    bootnode: "wss://gateway.swarm.swarmcity.org",
    wallet: {type: 'metamask'}, 
    blockchain: {endpoint: 'wss://infura.io...'}
});

let image = swarmCityDriver.upload(file);

let SOC = swarmCityDriver.SOC('profile');
SOC.upload({
    name: 'sig',
    image,
    licensePlate
});
```

```solidanity
/**
 * @title SwarmCity
 * @dev Deal with ride matching aspect.
 * @dev Intended as a ludicrously simple example.
 * @dev Many other functionalities begging to be added here.
 */
contract SwarmCity {

    function requestRide(lat, long) public {
        //pushes the ride into a searchable list of requested rides with the current timestamp
        return id;
    }

    function findRide(lat, long) public {
        //searches the list of current requested rides
        return rideIDs;
    }
    
    function acceptRide(rideID) public {
        //security, state management
        //send event
        return id;
    }
    
    function completeRide(rideID) public {
        //security, state management
        return id;
    }

}
```

The contract's abi is generated and it is deployed to the blockchain. Now we can import these using Swarm.js.

First, we use the user's Swarm.js instance to request a ride. Note we truncate the lat and long for privacy.

We then set up a listener to fire a function when an event is returned from the blockchain.

```js
let salt = "swarmcity";
let swarmCityRider = new Swarm(salt, {
    bootnode: "wss://gateway.swarm.swarmcity.org",
    wallet: {type: 'metamask'}, 
    blockchain: {endpoint: 'wss://infura.io...'}
});

let sCContract = new instaUserSwarm.contract(sCContractAddress, sCContractABI); 

let rideID = await sCContract.requestRide(truncate(lat), truncate(long));

sCContract.on('rideAccepted', args, rideWasAccepted);
```

Next, a driver in that area queries the blockchain to find a ride near them.

```js
let sCContract = new instaDriverSwarm.contract(sCContractAddress, sCContractABI); 

let rides = await sCContract.findRide(truncate(lat), truncate(long));
console.log(rides);
```

```sh
[{ 
    user: 'ab145ef...',
    rideID: 'ab145ef...'
}]
```

Bingo, the driver and rider's lat and long matched! :D

We accept the ride using the blockchain, then start to transmit our exact location.

Because this is assymetrically encrypted, we will are always looking for the latest version, we use the asymetrically encrypted timeseries feeds.

```js
await sCContract.acceptRide(rides[0].rideID);

let SOC = new swarmCityDriver.SOC(rideID, {
    type: 'timeseries',
    encryption: {
        'e2e',
        user
    }
});

let rideActive = true;
while(rideActive == true){
    await SOC.update({
        lat,
        long
    });
    await wait(10);
}
```

We will also set a loop to listen for SOCs giving us the rider's location, which the rider will start creating 

Now our rider's event fires and we start populating our rider's private channels of data.

Profile and timeseries of position

We will listen for the driver's SOCs so that we can pass their current location to the map display software.

```js

    let SOC = new swarmCityRider.SOC('profile');
    SOC.upload({
        name: 'rik',
        image
    });

//...

    let driverPosSOC = new swarmCityRider.SOC(ride.id, {owner: ride.driver.address});
    while(rideActive == true){
        try{
            let driverPos = driverPosSOC.latest();
            updateMap(driverPos.lat, driverPos.long);
        }catch(e){
            if(e.status.code !== 404){
                throw new Error(e);
            }
        }
        await wait(10);
    }

//...
    
    let SOC = new swarmCityRider.SOC(rideID);
    let rideActive = true;
    while(rideActive == true){
        await SOC.update({
            lat,
            long
        });
        await wait(10);
    }

```





### Beacon Chunks Version

In this example, we show an approach which does not burden a public general use blockchain* with our needs. 

For simplicity, we assume drivers aggregate feeds themselves. This would be feasible because each driver is only searching a small subset of the address space because of how we will architect our addressing scheme.

Each driver is only looking for a certain time and space area. 

Let us divide the world into a spherical grid of squares approx 2 miles square. We do this by dividing the longitude and latitude by a constant which we have derive simply as follows. 

total diameter of the world / magic constant = 2 miles
magic constant = 2 miles / total diameter of the world

now we work out our relative distance from Greenwich and multiply it by the magic constant.

swarmCityX = user latitude / total latitude * magic constant

The process is the analagous for longitude.

swarmCityY = user longitude / total longitude * magic constant

So now we know which one of the 2m^2 squares we divided the world into we're in right now.

We also define an epoch to be 2 minutes. 

swarmCityTime = unix time stamp / another magic constant

Again we will assume honesty for simplicity, it is not much more difficult to use the blockchain to enforce time. Space is more complicated, but this can be mitigated using a reputation system or similar.

So now we have our building blocks, we can define the addressing system as follows.

The salt "SWARMCITY" has been registered in the Snacc contract (Swarm / Salt Number and Code Consensus).

The opportunity addressing space is then defined to be the set of Beacon blocks that are generated by any user when using the concatenation of swarmCityX, swarmCityY and swarmCityTime as the topic used to generate the chunk in a specific neighbourhoud.

Now this addressing algorithm is publically known, it is possible for drivers to put all of this together to essentially crawl swarm to find opportunities in a certain area.

For simplicity we will look for just one square for this example. It is interesting to note that given the public nature of the addressing scheme, the opportunity to sell premium software that would mitigate the inadequacies innate in this approach when finding ride opportunties gives rise to a secondary market in software designed to mine these rides more effectively driven by increased demand for ability for drivers to earn money given more efficient processes. The outcome is beneficial for all parties, as the reward usually beholdent of the shareholders is distributed equally between software companies, users and service providers, and the egalitian nature of the swarm ripples out from within <3

BUT! Is this needed? Why not blockchain - we need it anyway? Well, the chicken and egg problem continues. And also the question of gas and who it is paid to. What data should be stored where, how it is sharded, who are the custodians and verifiers and how are the leader blocks elected. With Beacon blocks we can build our own blockchains. Beacon chunk can be mined in a certain neighbourhood and as such constitute proof of work, then, using a leader election algorithm which can be as simple as something randomly selected based on the user's address in the swarm, consensus blockchains are formed, the chunks are repinned and we are able to then directly mine specific dags based on pre-arranged topic defined address spaces. 